---
date: 2013-12-07
title: 2013
headline: The year in review
aliases:
  - /posts/2013.html
---

It’s the time of the year to write a recap about the things I’ve done this
year. 2013 has been a really awesome year, maybe my best year so far. I learned
tons, worked with really awesome people, made many new friends and travelled a
lot.&#10;

## Client work&#10;

This year, I worked for three big clients (and some smaller ones). The smallest
of three was an old employer who wanted a prototype of a new idea (in Ruby on
Rails). This prototype evolved into a bigger website, and things got a bit more
serious. Because I am not a real Rails developer, and because there was a base
level of trust missing, I decided to not continue working on this project. I had
written behavior tests using [Cucumber](http://cukes.info) for the entire
project: this was awesome once I decided to transfer it, because the other
developer was able to quickly take it over.&#10;

My other two big clients were [Aprendo](http://www.aprendo.nl) and
[Zeta](http://wearezeta.com). For Aprendo, we built an in-house app for
development of elite athletes. I worked together with
[Florian](http://floriankugler.com) on this, and our collaboration was so nice
we decided to make more things together (more on that later). For Zeta, I can’t
yet tell what I built, but keep an eye on them. It’ll be awesome.&#10;

I really liked having few bigger clients (rather than a more smaller clients).
I’m currently still wide open in 2014 for client projects, if you have a
bigger project that needs a serious developer (or a team): get in touch.&#10;

## Conferences and Events&#10;

This year was the year of the conferences for me. Almost exactly one year ago, I
realized that there’s no English iOS conference in Berlin, and with all the
awesome talent in the city we definitely needed one. So I teamed up with
[Peter](http://www.thewavingcat.com), [Matt](http://werkstatt.io) and
[Max](http://about.me/max.krueger), and we decided to organize
[UIKonf](http://www.uikonf.com). This was a lot of hard work, a lot of things
learned, and went way better than expected. One of my first lessons in how
working in a team can make you achieve that much more. In fact, it was so
awesome we decided to do it again, tickets for 2014 are now [on
sale](http://www.uikonf.com).&#10;

Because the awesome [NSHipster](http://nshipster.com) was in town, we decided to
put on an event together with Mattt, and put on an [NSHipster
night](http://2013.uikonf.com/2013/03/25/nshipster-quiz-night.html), which
turned out to be a great succes.&#10;

Also, after UIKonf, [Stijn Oomes](http://www.solid-perspective-vision.com)
approached me with the idea of doing a [3D programming
workshop](http://2013.uikonf.com/2013/06/11/uikonf-training.html). This went
well, we even had two days of workshops. We went over the basics of 3D
programming, and took different approaches in getting 3D scenes on the screen,
from high-level with SceneKit to low-level-everything-in-OpenGL.&#10;

Finally, a while ago Apple announced [Tech
Talks](https://developer.apple.com/tech-talks/) in Berlin. After learning that I
didn’t get a ticket, I decided to put my frustration to good use and started
organizing [Alt Tech Talks](http://www.alt-tech-talks.com), a free event for
everyone who did or did not get a ticket. On Wednesday night I asked on Twitter,
on Thursday I had the first 4 speakers confirmed and on Friday I rented a movie
theater. The rest isn’t history yet, because they’ll happen in a few days from
now.&#10;

### Talks&#10;

Because of starting [objc.io](http://www.objc.io) (more about this later),
Florian, [Daniel](https://twitter.com/danielboedewadt) and me gained a bit of
visibility in the iOS and Mac community. And that lead to conferences asking us
if we’d be interested in speaking. I like speaking, so off we went.&#10;

First, there was [NSSpain](http://nsspain.com/2013), which was an
English-speaking conference in Logroño. We were quite impressed: it was well
organized, great weather, and lots of nice food and wine. I spoke about [Lighter
View
Controllers](https://speakerdeck.com/chriseidhof/lighter-view-controllers).&#10;

Then, the talk I was most afraid of this year: an hour-long presentation in
German (\!) at [Macoun](http://www.macoun.de). Fortunately, my German is finally
at a level where people don’t have problems understanding me, and with enough
preparation, I think my talk came across well. The subject ([Schlanke View
Controller](https://speakerdeck.com/chriseidhof/schlanke-view-controller)) was
the the same as in Spain, and it seems to be very relevant for all iOS
developers.&#10;

About a month later, I spoke at [pragma mark](http://pragmamark.org), an iOS/OS
X conference in Milan, Italy. Here, I spoke about [async
programming](https://speakerdeck.com/chriseidhof/pragma-mark-simple-concurrent-programming),
which went okay. It is quite a hard topic to talk about, but luckily, writing
[the article for
objc.io](http://www.objc.io/issue-2/common-background-practices.html) forced me
to dive deep into the topic, and giving me plenty of raw material for the
talk.&#10;

The hardest talk format this year was at [Ignite
Berlin](http://igniteberlin.com/category/ignite04/); every presentation is 20
slides, and every slide auto-advances every 15 seconds. I prepared this the
other way around: normally, I write an outline for a talk, expand that a couple
of times and finally make slides. This time, however, I recorded myself telling
the story I wanted to tell, and made some slides that loosely reinforced what I
wanted to tell.&#10;

I also talked at [CocoaHeads
Dresden](https://speakerdeck.com/chriseidhof/parallele-programmierung-de) and
twice at the [Berlin Compiler Meetup](http://berlin.compilermeet.org).&#10;

## Other&#10;

In the beginning of the year, I joined [KANT](http://kantberlin.com), a studio
full of great people. I spent a couple of months working there, but after being
on-site with my client a lot, and having other commitments that didn’t allow me
to be there a lot, I decided to cancel my desk there. Being among them, I
learned to appreciate coffee even more.&#10;

I started lots of small new projects, some succesful, most failed. I often spend
a day or two building something (sometimes more). It’s a lot of fun, and in
doing so I learned a lot. I hope that I can use some of those ideas in future
projects.&#10;

Continuing from last year, we try to meet regularly for our German course. With
my fellow Dutchies [Alper](http://alper.nl/dingen/) and [IKSI](http://iksi.cc)
we take lessons from [@fraulea](https://twitter.com/fraulea). I will probably
spend the next 10 years improving my German while never getting close to being
near-native. But that’s okay, it’s a lot of fun and a beautiful language to
discover. For the German speakers that read this: if you ever hear me make
mistakes, please correct me.&#10;

After having spent most of the year freelancing, I’ve been working on a product
together with Florian and [A Color Bright](http://www.acolorbright.com). We’re
not quite ready to tell you what it is, but are getting close to release a
private beta towards the end of this year. And hopefully can submit to the store
early January. It’s going to be a native Mac app (our first) and it’s going to
be very beautiful. Building your own products is lots of fun, I hope to do a lot
more of that in 2014.&#10;

## objc.io&#10;

The last work-related topic: [objc.io](http://www.objc.io). On the morning after
UIKonf, on the hackday, I sat outside in the sun, together with Florian, Daniel
and [Peter](http://petersteinberger.com). Instead of hacking, we were talking
and drinking coffee, and I felt a bit guilty about that. Florian, Daniel and me
decided that we should write a blog with the three of us. A few days later, I
tried to convince them that we should instead make a magazine: one topic each
month, and in-depth articles. We asked [IKSI](http://iksi.cc) to make a
beautiful design, and asked [Natalye](http://deutsch-bitte.net) to do the
copy-editing. We started writing and tried to put a lot of effort into the first
issue. [Ricki](http://www.rickigregersen.com) wrote an article too, as our first
guest-writer. After a few weeks, Florian and me sat outside on my balcony, and
pressed publish. We posted the link on Twitter, waited a bit, and saw a huge
stream of compliments coming in.&#10;

Each month, each of us spends a few days researching and writing my article, as
well as coordinating the other things. It’s a lot of work, especially because we
really have to investigate each topic very deeply, as we don’t want to spread
the wrong ideas. But it’s oh so rewarding. The writing and researching in itself
make me a lot more knowledgeable. Before writing, I sometimes don’t know too
much about a topic, and having the article and its deadline force me to learn.
It’s just great. And of course, getting all the positive reactions from our
readers is very flattering.&#10;

## Leisure&#10;

This year, I visited Spain three times: once for running, once for a conference
and the third time to spend some time by myself (I’m writing this article from
Seville). I learned how to do exercises at the gym, which was so much fun: I
never expected that lifting heavy stuff could be fun, but it’s great. I ran a
new PB on the 10K: 37:03. I ran my first marathon: the [Oslo Forest
Marathon](http://www.skogsmaraton.no). It was way too hilly for me to run fast,
and while the first 27K went great, the last 15 were very hard. I visited
friends and family in The Netherlands, but not as much as I wanted. I ran up the
[Brocken](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brocken) a couple of times. Together with
Frank, I walked [Hadrian’s wall](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hadrian's_Wall),
and spend the week after that running up mountains in the Lake District. I went
sailing and camping in Sweden.&#10;

One of my disappointments was not being able to run the Berlin Marathon. I
trained for months, aiming to run a fast first road-marathon. However, during
the last week of tapering, I got quite sick, and had to stay in bed for a few
days. I might have caught a bug, or maybe I trained too hard. It took me a while
to recover, and I still haven’t gotten back to running 5 times a week.&#10;

## Recap&#10;

It was awesome. I had a blast. I did work too much, and want to change that next
year.&#10;
