---
date: 2024-11-18
title: "Weeknotes № 46"
headline: London
---

I'm writing this week's notes from London. I traveled here by train, it was a bit more of a hassle compared to my regular train rides (security/border control) but still a lot nicer than flying. On my way to London I stopped over in The Netherlands to do two days of hiking with my friends.

In our workshops, the people in each group have different experiences and work at different speeds. Therefore, we always include plenty of bonus exercises. Most of the bonus exercises are reusable, whereas the main exercises are almost all specific to the company we work with. 

We refined and tweaked the bonus material over the last few years. This week, I created new bonus exercises to replace some of the old ones. The new bonus material is more self-contained, more concise, and focuses on some newer topics. For example, the bonus exercise for animations now contains an exercise about keyframe animations.

After figuring out more Attribute Graph internals we finally had the confidence to start our reimplementation of it. The [first episode](https://talk.objc.io/episodes/S01E429-attribute-graph-part-1) came out last Friday. We're first building out the dependency tracking mechanism, and then we'll make it more SwiftUI-specific.

The [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CPzf_0tRwcE) of [my presentation on SwiftUI Animations](https://chris.eidhof.nl/presentations/swiftui-animations/) came out last week. It's the first time I'm using my new presentation tool, and while it wasn't perfect, it did end up going pretty well.

I spent a bunch more time riding my gravel bike which was really fun. It's starting to get properly cold now. I had my first flat (within a week of owning the new bike). I suspect it was something with the valve, but I'm not sure. In any case, I ordered a tubeless kit and once I'm back from London I'll convert the bike to a tubeless setup.

My Zettelkasten is filling up with articles about SwiftUI, animations and some about therapy. I'm at 51 notes now, I doubt it'll keep growing that quickly but let's see.
