---
date: 2024-12-02
title: "Weeknotes № 48"
headline: Hamburg
---

Last week Florian and me taught a workshop in Hamburg. While I'm a fluent German speaker it's definitely still a lot less fluent than my English and always a bit of a (fun) challenge. We got there Sunday night, and the offices (and our hotel) was in a business part of the city. We wanted to eat out for dinner and tried to find a local food court that we saw on the map. We expected to find a number of restaurants with different cuisines, and when we got there, there was just a single restaurant. After a loop around the block it turned out to be a single restaurant with many kinds of cuisines. It wasn't horrible and turned out to be a fun story. The contrast to my London hotel couldn't be bigger: the rooms were a quarter of the price, absolutely *massive* and included a lot more amenities, even breakfast.

On the way back there were massive delays in the train system, so after my train got cancelled I took a completely different route home. This also came with massive delays during the ride, which then turned out to be quite productive (luckily the train wasn't very full) for me. I *think* I figured out a lot more about how the Attribute Graph is used by SwiftUI and have a (bad) working prototype of SwiftUI that does incremental layout and state while still being a directed acyclic graph.

I tried baking miso cookies (for the third time) and they came out a lot better, but still very far away from the ones I tasted in Berlin. Also made pizza in our new pizza oven for the first time, somehow this was extremely stressful as things didn't really go as planned. But I'm sure with more practice I can figure it out.

I signed up for Bluesky ([@eidhof.nl](https://bsky.app/profile/eidhof.nl)) and posted a first video on there. For the rest of the month, my plan is to post a bunch of SwiftUI-related videos, let's see how that goes.
