---
date: 2024-02-20
title: "Weeknotes № 5-7"
headline: Launched
---

Over the last few weeks I worked with a strong focus and did not take the time to write weeknotes. The [SwiftUI Field Guide](https://www.swiftuifieldguide.com) is now live. I'll try to blog a bit more about the why and how in the upcoming weeks. It felt a bit like preparing for a marathon: I worked hard at it almost every single day (often also evenings, after the kids went to bed) for multiple months. In the days before the launch, I wanted to get everything as perfect as I could (there were still some pretty embarassing bugs just before the launch). The day after launching it, I felt happy but absolutely exhausted.

It's been a real pleasure building this. The design was all done by [Nick](https://nicholaschristowitz.com/) who also really obsessed over getting this right. I did the rest. There are so many fun little details in there: the site changes color when you're in dark mode (and the "SwiftUI" colors change, too). The code is formatted using a pretty printer, making it responsive on mobile (this isn't perfect, but in most examples it is better than doing nothing). The [more complex animations](https://www.swiftuifieldguide.com/layout/hstack/#PeDNMT-) are done in "SwiftUI".

In my first prototype, I rendered everything using a flat canvas view. This worked well, but I realized at some point that I wanted more interactive elements such as scroll views and buttons. I didn't really want to implement an entire scroll view myself. At some point, I switched to building up a DOM tree so that I could use the browser's built-in scrolling (which in turn uses the platform's built-in scrolling). Some views are still rendered using canvas (text and advanced shapes) where others use native DOM elements (a filled rounded rectangle, for example, is just a div with a background color and border radius).

I really wanted to make everything work as close as possible to real SwiftUI as I could. Essentially, anything that lays out differently I consider a bug. Hopefully I can fix some of the remaining bugs very soon.

In other news, I have been ramping up my marathon training again, and started a new schedule to (hopefully) run a marathon in late April. I typically prepare using at least a 16 week schedule, but due to illness at the beginning of the year I only have 12 weeks. I don't want to run even later (in May) because I run much better when it's cooler. I decided to use this marathon as a stepping stone to getting fit again. Clearly, there is no room for getting sick again — if COVID or something else happens I will have to set a different goal.



