---
date: 2024-11-04
title: "Weeknotes № 44"
headline: Pragma Conf
---

Going to [pragma](http://pragmamark.org) was awesome as always. We went with the whole family and took so many trains! (I even got a status upgrade by Deutsche Bahn and am now a gold member.)

- Fürstenberg → Berlin
- Berlin → München
- München → Kufstein
- Kufstein → Innsbruck

We then stayed in Innsbruck for two nights, and went on to Verona by taking two more trains:

- Innsbrück → Brenner
- Brenner → Verona

After a night in Verona, we took a train straight to Bologna and a bus to top it off. The kids also really enjoyed all the travel. We did a reasonable job with packing, but should probably have packed lighter still. Our way back from Bologna was much easier: it only took us one train to get to Munich, and two more trains the next day to get home. We would definitely do something like this again.

I managed to implement a very basic version of the attribute graph based on [this paper](https://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/document?repid=rep1&type=pdf&doi=9609985dbef43633f4deb88c949a9776e0cd766b). It seems to work for basic stuff, but I'm not 100% sure yet how to do all the SwiftUI-specific things. For example, how does layout work? The parent proposes a size, so the child is dependent on that. Yet the child may at a later point change its state and the parent needs to relayout.

My talk at Pragma went well. I had my talk ready a few weeks before the conference, yet like to practice a lot in the days before the actual talk. Due to the kids and traveling, I was only able to go through my talk twice in the final week, but it still went okay. In general, there were a lot of great talks and conversations at the conference.

For most things I have been using [jj](https://github.com/martinvonz/jj) instead of git as my daily driver. It works surprisingly well. In my career I've used CVS, SVN and git. Each always felt like a big step forward and somehow made the previous tool feel old and outdated. jj has a similar effect for me.
