---
date: 2025-12-31
title: "2025"
headline: "Wrapping Up"
---

This has been a very eventful year for me personally. While I don't want to talk publicly about all the bad things that happened, there's been enough for a year.

Yet, this is a hopeful post. I'm doing well given the circumstances. I learned a whole bunch of new things about myself. I found much more compassion for both myself and for others. I was able to show up in ways I couldn't imagine before.

Some of the things from 2025 will continue to drag on in the new year. There's going to be a lot of adjustment, but there will also be many new opportunities.

I decided to take action on some things that bothered me and will collaborate much more in 2026. I'll start in January by doing a project with [Nathan](https://cykele.ro) and hope to collaborate much more with others during the rest of the year. I'm planning to be in Berlin more regularly as well, and hope to be more active in the social part of the tech scene.

This year, I'm most proud of how I was able to reframe some really bad situations. Instead of trying to control things that were out of my control, I was able to show up in the best way possible. I showed up full of compassion and understanding. For the first time in my life, it was really clear to me that I chose to act well even when other people did not. I optimized against regret. It's not the first time in my life where a stressful situation actually made me get the best out of me.

My new year's resolution for 2026 is to celebrate more. Specifically, I want to celebrate the achievements of the people around me as well as my own achievements. I want to celebrate friendships, collaborations and other good things. If you have something to celebrate, reach out and we'll find a good way!
