---
aliases:
  - /posts/changing-tech-education.html
date: 2012-05-16
title: Changing Tech Education
---

Sometimes I talk to my friends about why I want to become rich. It’s to solve
the money problem, and once it’s solved, I hope to have the time, connections
and status to work on bigger problems. I already know exactly what I want to try
once I’m there: change tech education.&#10;

When I did my bachelor’s degree in computer science, I was quite bored most of
the time. Officially, you were supposed to work on it at least 40 hours per
week, but for me and most of my friends it was closer to 10 hours. The other
time we would spend working, or having a hangover.&#10;

One of the causes why I didn’t have to work so hard at university is the
different levels of experience. When I started, I already had a few years of
building websites under my belt. For example: I worked as the main developer at
one of biggest soccer sites, and at the same time I had to take a course on the
basics of HTML. Obviously, this disconnect was a problem for me, and for a lot
of other motivated students around me. I want to solve this problem.&#10;

My solution is a program similar to a bachelor’s degree in length, but a lot
more intense. In order to enter this program, you have to show your aptitude at
programming. The program will have teachers from both academia and industry,
because I think both theory and practice are very important. Only the best
students and teachers can participate. Students have to study theory, but will
also spent a lot of time doing internships and real projects. They will learn
standard theory, but also topics such as node.js, statistics for big data
analysis, native mobile programming, HTML5, git internals, et cetera. For each
batch of students, I want to get financing from big companies who then get
access to the talent.&#10;

To pull this off will be a huge and hard job, but I look forward to it. I’m
still in the exploratory phase, and not sure whether I will actually do it, but
at this moment in time I’m talking with people in both industry and academia to
see whether it’s feasible. Instead of a bachelor’s program, a very good first
step might be to organize a Hacker’s Summer School: 6 weeks of learning and
hacking together with other talented hackers and awesome teachers.&#10;

Part of me thinks I’m too young, inexperienced and not connected enough to do
this. But I still think I should at least explore whether it’s possible and
should try. I have no idea in which form exactly. I don’t know what the topics
are going to be, who the teachers are or even what the team should look like.
I’ll keep you posted\!&#10;
