---
aliases:
  - /posts/hard-decisions.html
date: 2011-11-21
title: Hard Decisions
---

Over the last few weeks, I was asked three times (by two different companies) to
become the development lead (i.e. CTO). Both of these companies are really quite
awesome, and I can see them become very succesful (actually, one already is
quite succesful). I strongly considerd saying yes to both positions, but
ultimately decided not to do it.&#10;

One of the companies already makes good profits, the other one is just starting
but can become very profitable. Both of them are sort of world-changing, one
more than the other. Both companies have awesome teams.&#10;

Saying no was very hard for me. There are two big reasons for me not to do
it:&#10;

One: I’m planning to leave The Netherlands again, to live abroad for a few
years. This could happen quite soon or in about a year (which is also quite soon
when you’re joining a company that’s starting). I don’t think it’s a good idea
to start something like that when you know you’re almost leaving.&#10;

Two: I’m really enjoying my lifestyle right now. I’m working on new ideas for
apps, building prototypes and finishing some of them, getting products out of
the door and meeting interesting people. I also run a lot, almost every day, at
the middle of the day. I’m not commuting to work, but instead working from home
or in coffee shops. If I would take a position at a startup or regular company,
it probably means commuting, and I have a lot less choice in how I would like to
spend my time.&#10;

With both opportunities I felt it was a quite ‘safe’ way for me to spend my
time. Doing everything on my own feels more risky, but more rewarding because of
that. Also, I’m becoming more and more attached to my freedom of time, and I
think that’s a good thing.&#10;
