---
aliases:
  - /posts/how-i-will-design-my-app-website.html
date: 2011-10-17
title: How I Will Design My App Website
---

For Met, I need to design and build a website, and in this post I’ll show some
of best the app websites I’ve bookmarked and try to explain why I like them. My
definition of “best” in this case mostly means beautiful. I don’t know how they
convert visitors or any other performance, so that’s something I need to measure
myself.&#10;

**Screenshots**

Perhaps the most important part of an app website are the screenshots. All the
great app websites have good screenshots on their websites. The screenshot is
never just a screenshot, but always shown with the iPhone around it. Great
examples are [Eeve](http://geteeve.com/) and
[Cocktails](http://thecocktailapp.com/). How not to do it is shown on my own
[TrackMe](http://eidhof.nl/trackme) website.&#10;

[Uli](http://aplusplus.org/) also once said to me that the iPhone should always
be shown on a real background. [With](http://with.me/) is a perfect example of
this: they show people meeting each other on the background.&#10;

**Good one-sentence explanation**

All the good app websites have one sentence that explains what they do, either
as the logo subtitle or just in a bold font:&#10;

  - [Flipboard](http://flipboard.com/) - “This is your Flipboard. It’s your
    social magazine, now with more to enjoy”

  - [With](http://with.me) - “A fun, simple way to share who you’re with”

  - [Camera+](http://campl.us/) - “The ultimate photo app”

  - [Flight Card](http://www.sylion.com/flightcard/) - “Your boarding pass,
    reinvented”

**Start with the important things**

When you open most of the websites, you see a logo, the screenshots, a brief
explanation and a “Download on the App Store” button, not much else. If you want
more information, sometimes you can scroll or page through the screenshot. On
other websites, you can scroll down and see more things, such as testimonials,
feature lists and contact info.&#10;

As a non-designer, that’s the elements I could find in common. I will keep these
things in mind when I design the website for Met this week. If you know of any
other good ideas or app websites, let me know, and I’ll update the post
accordingly.&#10;
