---
aliases:
  - /posts/how-a-burnout-changed-my-life.html
date: 2011-09-05
title: How a burnout changed my life
---

In the previous two posts, I wrote about my burnout. First about how I got it,
then about how I dealt with it. I have the feeling it has changed me
permanently, but mostly in a good way.&#10;

I don’t work as hard anymore. I don’t want to work weekends and evenings. Of
course, every now and then I feel the urge to do something, but I try to resist.
I read more, and take more time to socialize.&#10;

My job has changed from mostly programming to building products. This includes
programming, but also marketing, strategy, design, meeting people, writing and
more. For me, this is a more healthy mix at the moment. It’s a big difference
from freelancing.&#10;

The biggest change was that *I see programming as a means, not an end*. This
manifests itself in a number of ways. I’m not trying to write the perfect
program, framework or language anymore. They don’t exist.&#10;

Also, I don’t want to use Haskell for everything anymore. I don’t feel
frustrated by using Objective C for iPhone programming, or Ruby for web
programming. Whatever gets the job done fastest. Every now and then I think
about building a better language, and maybe I will someday, but not now.&#10;

For almost every problem, I try to find existing libraries. I did not suffer
badly from the Not Invented Here Syndrome before, but now it got even better. I
try to reuse code wherever possible, whether it’s somebody else’s code or my
own.&#10;

So far, I’m actually happy for the experience. A burnout is no fun, and it was
scary for me, afraid that I would never be able to go back. I am confident that
I now have found a better balance, and that I will be able to prevent it in the
future. We’ll see\!&#10;

[Discuss on Hacker News](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=2961692)
