---
aliases:
  - /posts/how-i-dealt-with-a-burnout.html
date: 2011-09-02
title: How I dealt with a burnout
---

This post is the second part of my series on burnout. [Read the first
part](/post/how-i-got-a-burnout) to know how I got there.&#10;

The first month after graduating, I spent exercising and sitting on the couch.
Exercising made me feel good, especially the running pulled me through. However,
still no joy in programming.&#10;

It is interesting to note that I didn’t feel down all the time, it was very much
work-related. Actually, most of the time I felt pretty OK. What worried me
though, is not knowing if the joy in my work would ever come back. And if it
wouldn’t, I had no idea of what career to pursue.&#10;

After two months, I reluctantly accepted a freelance gig. It would take about
six weeks, and the deliverables included an iPhone app, an iPad app, a web
application (both backend and frontend), and two Mac applications. It was very
interesting, and I managed to get everything done and got some money out of it
so I could pay the bills for the next few months. After the project was done I
didn’t feel like doing anything for about two months, except for drinking
coffee, running, and meeting friends. After that, I went backpacking in Spain
for about a month, and when I came back (which was about half a year about my
graduation) I finally looked forward to getting back to work again. Still,
programming didn’t give me as much joy.&#10;

Fast forward another 6 months, during which I did some small consulting jobs,
gave a 5-week training on iOS development, and started a startup. I felt well
rested and looked forward to programming again. And when we started programming,
it was a lot of fun. Unfortunately, the startup didn’t work, but I realized that
the worst was over.&#10;

I had spent about a year doing as little as possible, programming-wise. I tried
not to force myself, and tried out building stuff every now and then. My
negative feelings slowly faded. I’m not sure if this is the best approach, but
it worked for me.&#10;

In the last months, I have been building iOS apps on my own. I went through a
major transformation during my burnout: I now see programming as a means, not an
end. And I’m having lots of fun again. More about that transformation and the
results in the [next post](/post/how-a-burnout-changed-my-life).&#10;

[Discuss on Hacker News](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=2953399)
