---
aliases:
  - /posts/i-use-this.html
date: 2012-02-13
title: I Use This
---

I was inspired by people writing about their setup on [The
Setup](http://usesthis.com/), so I decided to write about my own setup.&#10;

**Hardware**

I use a Mid 2010 Macbook Pro 15” with an SSD. I only switched last week, when my
old hard drive was about to die. I don’t use any external screen, keyboard or
mouse. Because I travel a lot and work from pretty much everywhere, the HD
display is really convenient. I would like a more lightweight laptop, but don’t
feel like compromising on the screen size.&#10;

I also carry around an iPhone, and a very basic A4 note taking pad. The last one
is essential, I like taking notes and doing sketching on real paper. I own an
iPad, but don’t use it that much (mostly for development). For reading, I have a
Kindle (which is probably the device I treasure the most).&#10;

**Development**

Being an iOS developer, I spend most of my working hours in XCode. It’s not the
most advanced IDE, but I think it’s important to stay with the tools Apple
provides. To be fair, I don’t hate it either. And it keeps getting better with
every release, although it lacks features that were in Eclipse many years
ago.&#10;

When I’m not doing iOS development, I use
[MacVim](http://code.google.com/p/macvim/). I write all my other code in it, and
do lots of text editing in it (this blog post is written in MacVim). I started
learning Emacs as well, but the many years of learning vim make me feel slow in
any other editor.&#10;

For versioning, I only use Git. I do think it has a bad interface and often have
problems remembering the exact commands. One of the things that did help me
understand git a bit better was the chapter on [The Git Object
Model](http://book.git-scm.com/1_the_git_object_model.html) in the git community
book.&#10;

I recently changed my default shell from bash to zsh, and I really like it. I
installed [Oh My Zsh](https://github.com/robbyrussell/oh-my-zsh) which provides
you with awesome defaults and plugins. (Thanks for pointing it out to me
Maik).&#10;

**Other**

For browsing, I use Chrome. I like the speed and minimalism of it.&#10;

For note taking, I use Evernote. It works on my Mac, iPhone and iPad. And it’s
really easy to have shared notebooks. Although I can definitely imagine a better
product, it does the job.&#10;

Another important app for me is
[OmniFocus](http://www.omnigroup.com/products/omnifocus/). I practice
[GTD](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Getting_Things_Done) and OmniFocus helps me
keep my current projects and next actions organized. Any other GTD stuff I have
is in Evernote.&#10;

[Wallet](http://www.acrylicapps.com/wallet/) takes care of my passwords. It
integrates nicely with Chrome, so I never have to remember all my different
passwords.&#10;

I used to run a mail server with my friends, but switched to GMail last year. I
think Google probably takes better care of my data than I could do myself. I
wouldn’t mind switching to a better, paid service which gives me good guarantees
about my data.&#10;

Most people don’t talk about this, but for exploring darker corners of the
internet, I use the VPN service by IPredator. It gives me at least some sense of
security.&#10;

**Backups**

For backups, I put a lot of stuff in my Dropbox folder. Also, I have
[Backblaze](http://www.backblaze.com/) installed which backs everything up
online. And finally, I have an external hard drive for Time Machine
backups.&#10;
