---
aliases:
  - /posts/met-has-launched.html
date: 2011-11-07
title: Met has launched
---

Today is the official release of [Met](http://met.io/). I will send out a press
release to all the Dutch iOS websites, and will send out an press release in
English tomorrow. The last few weeks have been quite an adventure. I documented
all the steps of building Met on this weblog, starting with choosing an idea and
ending with submitting it to the App Store.&#10;

For those that haven’t read the story yet: Met is an application that allows you
to take notes on people. If you meet a lot of people, it can be easy to forget
important things about them. By writing done some quick notes after a meeting
you can remember those details.&#10;

Here’s a quick summary of the last few weeks:&#10;

**Week 1**

I started with a blog post explain the [three different app
ideas](/post/10680838726/one-app-in-four-weeks-kickoff) I considered for this
project. I then [chose the idea for Met](/post/10723613553/check-in-to-people),
and designed a MVP, based on all the comments I got from people. The next day, I
[sketched some ideas](/post/10801169656/sketches-and-ideas) and wrote up my
thoughts at the [end of week 1](/post/10842079067/one-app-in-four-weeks-week-1),
and also included some first screenshots (man, that looks so different from the
current state Met is in).&#10;

**Week 2**

At the [start of week 2](/post/10976458593/start-of-week-2), I did some code
cleanup, and tried to define the next steps: get the basic functionality done
and thought of [a better way to select
people](/post/11023935286/selecting-people-faster) (which is an action you
perform a lot, so it has to be fast).&#10;

The [end of week 2](/post/10976458593/start-of-week-2) was strange: working on
other projects, not feeling productive, thinking and designing. After a day of
designing, I threw all the designs away and stayed with Apple’s default
design.&#10;

**Week 3**

Week 3 started with releasing a beta version and [thinking about the
branding](/post/11269801237/beta-and-branding). After reading that post,
Jurriaan sent me [an awesome name
suggestion](/post/11323208696/introducing-met). I defined the next actions and
set to work. I implement [support for device
rotations](/post/11362285888/rotation-fun), which is essential for fast typing
(as the landscape layout gives you a bigger keyboard). I posted [some
screenshots](/post/11397933121/new-build-and-screenshots) and wrote about [my
experiences so far](/post/11443510002/week-3-an-app-in-four-weeks).&#10;

**Week 4**

The last week was a bit chaotic, as I was doing some personal projects. I did
[research on app websites](/post/11566614614/how-i-will-design-my-app-website),
and picked a few I really liked. I tried to identify the important things they
have in common. I wrote about my [press
plans](/post/11615742534/new-build-first-website-press-plans) and finally
[submitted](/post/11986052385/met-in-the-app-store) Met to the App Store&#10;

**Closing thoughts**

My goal was to help other people by documenting the process of building an app.
Additionally, I expected to get some attention by doing it, which would
hopefully increase sales a bit. However, I didn’t expect that people would be so
helpful, giving me lots of suggestions, ideas and tips. Just awesome.&#10;

Half of the beta testers gave me really useful comments. This helped improve the
app a lot. The other half said “I guess it’s not for me”, which is only
fair.&#10;

I am really excited to see how the launch goes. I’m a bit afraid that I might
have built something that nobody wants to use, but on the other hand: I use Met
myself, daily, and I really like it. It’s already proven to be very
useful\!&#10;

If you want to use Met yourself, please [buy it in the App
Store](http://itunes.apple.com/us/app/met-take-notes-about-the-people/id476264034?ls=1&mt=8).&#10;
