---
aliases:
  - /posts/no-more-sugar.html
date: 2011-07-31
title: "30 day experiment: no more sugar"
---

Ever since I heard about [30 day
challenges](http://www.stevepavlina.com/blog/2005/04/30-days-to-success/ "30 days to success"),
I have loved the idea. About 6 weeks ago, it was time for a new 30 day
challenge: cutting out sugar. I have been a sugar addict for a long time: I can
always eat sugary stuff and have a constant craving. I thought that this would
be the hardest thing I had ever done (and I’ve done things like running a half
marathon). The experiment was more an experiment in self-control than an
experiment to stay healthy (I have a pretty good bodyweight because I run a
lot).&#10;

On my list of things not to eat was candy, crisps, cookies, ice cream, etcetera.
I didn’t want to drink normal sodas either (diet sodas, however, were allowed).
When heaving breakfast, lunch or dinner the cooks oftentimes put sugar in your
meals, I didn’t care about that. As long as I could stick to three regular meals
a day, nothing in between and no desserts I would be happy. There was one big
exception: after running I allowed myself to drink chocolate milk, which is a
[really good recovery
drink](http://www.acsm.org/AM/Template.cfm?Section=About_ACSM&TEMPLATE=/CM/HTMLDisplay.cfm&CONTENTID=14752),
high on both carbs and proteins. The day before the experiment, I had a lot of
sugar: chocolate, ice cream, sodas and more.&#10;

When the experiment started, I immediately noticed how it wasn’t as hard as
expected. After about a week, it didn’t seem hard at all. I noticed how I had
all these habits involving sugar (the candy that comes with the bill, a coke
during dinner, bringing a bag of candy on a long train ride, downing a box of
orange tic-tacs). Before, I wasn’t aware of all these habits, but the experiment
made me notice. I also started noticing how *my happiness level during the day
was more equal*. No more sugar crashes, which made me feel quite stable.&#10;

At the end of the experiment, I noticed how I actually liked it. I wasn’t
thinking anymore about the next opportunity to get some chocolate, it felt very
natural. The first day after the experiment I again bought a big supply of
sugary things and ate it all, and to be honest: I didn’t really like it. I can
still enjoy a piece of chocolate every now and then, but I don’t like it as much
as I used to. At the moment of writing, I’ve decided to repeat the experiment
again (but only for two weeks), just because it felt so good. *It’s a lot easier
not to eat any sugar at all than to eat a little bit.*&#10;
