---
aliases:
  - /posts/on-minimalism.html
date: 2011-08-29
title: On Minimalism
---

A few years ago, I first read [Stuff](http://www.paulgraham.com/stuff.html) by
Paul Graham. The article really resonated with me, even though I was living in a
small room at the time and didn’t have that much stuff. In recent months, I have
been discussing similar topics with some of my friends, philosofying about
[Minimalism](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Simple_living),
[Stoicism](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stoicism) and
[Buddhism](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Buddhism). Since then, I have been
actively trying to get rid of more stuff and making my life simpler in general.
Below I discuss a couple of ways in which I implemented this:&#10;

**Less stuff**

The first step is to have less stuff. Before I moved to Berlin, I got rid of
most of the things I own. I still have some things in storage (for example, I
couldn’t bring myself to getting rid of my books). I went to Berlin with a
suitcase and a small messenger bag. After my friend visited a few weeks ago, he
took my suitcase and I’m left with a backpack and a messenger bag. In Berlin,
the only furniture I own is a mattress and a drying rack for my clothes (a chair
and desk would have been nice, I admit). While this probably sounds very
uncomfortable to you, it actually isn’t, once you get used to it.&#10;

**Simpler eating**

A few months ago I tried 30 days without any candy, crisps or soft drinks. I
limited my food to three meals a day, no snacks in between. This felt great. I
stopped worrying about what candy to eat next, felt healthier and emotionally
more stable. Even though I didn’t make it into a permanent habit and eat sugar
again every now and then, I am considering doing the experiment again for a
longer time.&#10;

**No apartment**

I cancelled my apartment in The Netherlands. I now rent apartments for a short
time (say, a few months). It feels very liberating to be able to cancel the
rent, pack my stuff and move on. I don’t get too attached to one place. Even
though I’m not sure whether I’ll like it in the long run, it feels great right
now.&#10;

**Simpler social life**

In Berlin, I don’t have nearly as many friends as in Utrecht. Whereas I used to
have my agenda fully booked (read about [Dutch people and Their
Agendas](http://stuffdutchpeoplelike.com/2011/07/29/scheduling-agenda-appointments/)),
I now call people to meet instead of making an appointment to meet in a few
weeks. Again, this makes my life so much simpler.&#10;

**Information diet**

This is a step I still want to implement better: go on an [information
diet](http://www.fourhourworkweek.com/blog/category/low-information-diet-and-selective-ignorance/).
Three steps I already took: I haven’t watched television for more than half a
year, I have read about 10 newspapers in the last years, and last week I clicked
“unsubscribe” in Google Reader instead of “Mark all as read” on about 20
blogs.&#10;

**Kindle**

I love to read. A nice side-effect is that I had a good bookcase for showing
off. The step to buying a Kindle was not an easy one, but has worked very well.
It takes a bit of getting used to, but I’m a big fan now. I can take my books
everywhere I want, and they are generally cheaper too.&#10;

**Conclusion**

Where will this end? If I continue like this, will I find myself in a Tibetan
monastery meditating in a few years from now? I don’t think so. Even though I’m
slowly simplifying my life, I’m sure I’ll have a fallback every now and then.
There definitely is a tension between pleasure and minimalism, but so far I feel
very happy. Keep reading this blog to find out what it’s like in a few years
from now.&#10;

[Discuss on Hacker News](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=2936432)
