---
aliases:
  - /posts/one-app-in-four-weeks-kickoff.html
date: 2011-09-26
title: "One app in four weeks: kickoff"
---

When I woke up this morning I heard the sound of the Mediterranean sea and saw
palm trees out the window. Yesterday night I arrived in Malaga, Spain. I’ll be
slowly travelling around the area for the next few weeks. I probably won’t be
working full days, as it’s very beautiful here, and there are a lot of things to
see and do.&#10;

Originally, I had a nice plan for my work-related time during these weeks: build
four apps in four weeks. I really liked the idea: build a simple app and get it
out as quickly as I can. While I still like the idea, Jay Fuerstenberg had a
great comment on that: [@chriseidhof I’d rather see you think for 1 week on a
great app and make it in 3 weeks. \#AppStore has enough junk
apps](https://twitter.com/#!/jayfuerstenberg/status/115773083461234688). Very
true.&#10;

Therefore, I’ll do things differently: I’ll make an app in four weeks. This
week, I’m going to evaluate three ideas and draw out sketches and interface
prototypes. I’ll try to post an update almost daily.&#10;

I’ll try to document the whole process of building an app on this blog: choosing
an idea, going from sketches to a prototype to a working version, and polishing
the app. I’ll talk about the branding and marketing, and I would really
appreciate your comments on everything.&#10;

My *first idea* is an app for learning how to do something: like an ebook, but
designed for iPad from the ground up: way more interactive, with something to do
for almost every page. Writing, design and coding will go hand in hand. I’m not
sure what the topic should be: learning HTML 5, learning to negotiate, learning
a part of math interactively (for example, differentiation) or learning basic
iPhone programming.&#10;

The *second idea* is an iPad app for building interactive iPhone prototypes. A
friend of mine asked me why there is no decent one yet, they are all too
complicated. I haven’t researched this area yet, so maybe it already
exists.&#10;

The *third idea* is an iPhone app for making notes about people. I meet a lot of
people, and I would like to start making notes about them. After meeting them,
I’ll jot down a few notes, and the next time I meet a person I can see a
history of the meetings we had, and maybe also quickly browse his social
profiles (in a similar way to Rapportive). I can also imagine a “check-in” like
function, where you only record that you met the person, including the place and
time.&#10;

I would love to hear your thoughts. Which of these apps would you like to see?
Please leave a comment, and I’ll try to pick the right idea tomorrow or the day
after that.&#10;

[Discuss on Hacker News](http://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=3037924)
