---
aliases:
  - /posts/speaking-up.html
date: 2012-01-16
title: Speaking Up
---

Deciding when to speak up is one of the things where I feel I haven’t yet
figured it out at all. I don’t know when or how to do it.&#10;

In high school, a friend of mine didn’t like her boyfriend anymore. I told her
that if she really feels that way then she should break up with him. The
boyfriend (who was a good friend of me as well) was, understandably, quite angry
at me. From that moment, I decided it wasn’t a good idea to speak up about other
people’s relationships, even if I have strong opinions on it. However, recently,
a friend told me he wished people would have told their true opinions about his
ex-girlfriend. Mine was mildly negative, but I never said so to him. I don’t
know if I should have done so.&#10;

Being a programmer, I always get a lot of business-people looking for a
programmer. They tell me their idea, and in my opinion, most of the ideas suck.
Whenever I think this, I’ll try to postpone judgement and get my thoughts
straight. I still feel it my professional responsibility to tell them why it is
a bad idea and do so eventually. But where to draw the line? Do you tell thim
“your idea sucks and here’s why”? Or “this is what I don’t like about your
idea”. Maybe even “I don’t think you should try to become an entrepreneur” (I’ve
never said that and not planning to do so either).&#10;

One of the reasons why I find it hard to say what I’m thinking is because I have
been wrong so many times. If Jack Dorsey would have pitched me Twitter, I
probably would have strongly advised him not to pursue it as a business, because
it doesn’t really add anything (we already had blogs, social networks, text
messaging and email). Also, you need a lot of people for it to be interesting. I
mean, seriously, a 140-character microblog is the best idea you can come up
with? What problem does it solve anyway?&#10;
