---
aliases:
  - /posts/starting-new-projects.html
date: 2012-04-27
title: Starting new projects
---

One of the most exciting things for me is starting new projects. Each time I
start to build a new app, I get way too excited and see rainbows and ponies
everywhere. “This time it’s going to beautiful, easy, quick to finish and lots
of fun”. There is a blank slate and in my mind everything fits together
perfectly.&#10;

However, in reality, after I’ve spent some time on a project, I start to see the
design mistakes I made. Sometimes I even realize that the product/project itself
isn’t a good idea. The longer I work on something, the harder it is to finish
it. It definitely helps to work with a team, as you can pull each other through
the hard times. When working with clients, it’s a lot easier to push yourself to
finish something.&#10;

I might have found a way to utilize the starting of new projects in order to be
more productive. In an [earlier
post](http://chris.eidhof.nl/post/9624114465/lots-of-test-projects), I wrote
about how I create lots of test projects. I still do this, and sometimes when I
am not looking forward to implementing some new feature, I instead start
implementing it in a blank slate test project. As an additional advantage, the
new code will probably be nicely isolated and loosely coupled.&#10;

Anyway, to get back to starting new projects: I think I will struggle with this
throughout the rest of my life. It will always be more attractive to start
something new than to finish something. However, realizing this problem is the
first step in combatting it. And by using tricks like the one above I think it
could even be bent to an advantage.&#10;
