---
aliases:
  - /posts/start-of-week-2.html
date: 2011-10-03
title: Start of Week 2
---

Today is the start of the second week of the [One App in Four
Weeks](/post/one-app-in-four-weeks-kickoff) challenge.&#10;

Last Friday, I added tabs to the application: one for the most recent checkins,
and one for the list of contacts. More tabs will probably come, such as search
and settings.&#10;

This week, I will try to get the functionality done. I need to add a Person view
(after you press on a Person you see the history), fix some shortcuts I took,
add search and add a passcode lock (as Lucas said, this is indeed a very
sensitive application).&#10;

As [Robert](https://twitter.com/#!/robertgaal) mentioned on Twitter, it would be
nice if you can minimize the amount of input. He suggested not doing free text
input, and while I agree that would be nice I still think it’s valuable to have
a free text input (although smart autocompletion could help out in minimizing
the amount you need to type).&#10;

After the implementation, the next steps would be to work on the branding and
the design. I am a bit afraid of the design part, as I am not a very good
designer (I don’t have a great eye for detail and sometimes lack the patience
when designing). So for the designers who are reading along, I would be very
interested in your ideas.&#10;

For the branding, I thought of a great name (Dossier), but it’s already used by
some other apps (one of which does a similar thing). However, I didn’t really
put any effort into it so far, so after a good brainstorming session I’ll come
up with a name.&#10;

![](http://dl.dropbox.com/u/1264810/blog-content/IMG_1251.PNG
"Recent Checkins")![](http://dl.dropbox.com/u/1264810/blog-content/IMG_1252.PNG
"Contact List")
