---
aliases:
  - /posts/take-the-money.html
date: 2012-01-17
title: Take the money
---

After yesterday’s post about [speaking
up](http://chris.eidhof.nl/post/15942157709/speaking-up), I got some questions
about what my responsibility is as a freelance programmer. Am I qualified to
judge other people’s business ideas? And if so, should I tell them if it’s a bad
idea? I’m a computer programmer, maybe I should just stick to what I know.&#10;

The question I’m trying to answer is: “Should I just take the money?”&#10;

I’m not sure if it is my responsibility to judge other people’s business ideas.
It also really depends on who the other person is and what they want from me. If
people want me to build something in exchange for shares, then I obviously have
to judge their ideas. When it comes to paying clients, I could just take the
money and walk away.&#10;

However, I have never been like that. Luckily, freelancers in my profession are
in very high demand and we can afford to say ‘no’ to clients every now and then.
When I’m taking on freelance projects, I try to avoid doing projects that aren’t
good ideas. For example, I’ve advised clients who came for an iPhone app that
they should just get a mobile website instead. Or more recently, for a lab
prototype, I advised to go for Android instead of iOS, because the necessary
technology wasn’t freely available on iOS. In both projects, I could have chosen
for the money, but I think it’s in everybody’s best interest to do things the
right way.&#10;

The client should of course get the best possible solution. But I believe it’s
better for me, too. Hopefully, the client will remember that I took myself out
of the equation, and will get a good impression of me. They might hire me for
another project or recommend me to their friends. This is why I think it’s best
for me to be as honest as possible about these projects. It might not be fun in
the short term, but I hope it will pay off in the long time.&#10;
