---
date: 2019-12-30
title: "2019"
headline: My Year In Review
---

This was my first full year of being a dad (my daughter was born at the end of March in 2018), and to accomodate for that, I did not plan anything big. I focused on spending lots of time with the family, working and running (in that order). 

The best month was September: I took a month off of work (except for maintenance things here and there), and also really drastically limited social media and other digital entertainment (Youtube, Hacker News, etc.). I still spent an average of 30 minutes on my phone every day, but that mostly consisted of things like Google Maps, Spotify and browsing/reading recipes. The rest of the time I spent running and doing things with my daughter. I did miss work, after a month. I really enjoy programming, and everything around it, so I was glad to get back to it in October.

As part of getting adjusted to being a family, we also decided to go on a few trips together: I spoke and gave a workshop in Montreal at [NSNorth](https://nsnorth.ca/), and brought the rest of the family. We learned that flying such a long distance is quite doable, and are glad we did it, but we wouldn't do it again anytime soon. Instead, in June, we went on a train trip to Vienna, Krakow, and Warsaw, which was lots of fun. My daughter loved crawling around the train and saying hi to all the other passengers.

As an experiment, I also traveled to Argentina to speak, and combined it with a hiking holiday in Patagonia, together with my brother. Being away from the family for two weeks was hard, but I did have a great time nonetheless. Another lesson learned: I wouldn't want to travel for that long without the family anytime soon. 

Work-wise, it was a really interesting year, despite not shipping big new things ourselves. SwiftUI came out, and it's been a lot of fun learning about it. So much fun that we even decided to write a short book about it (the official announcement for this will come soon).

I decided to run a higher mileage in 2019. While it didn't work out for the Rotterdam marathon, it worked really, really well for the Berlin marathon. I smashed my PB and ran 2:48. Here's my [race report](/post/race-report-berlin-marathon/).

